---
sidebar_position: 12
description:
  Database actions allow you to create, update, delete and query your app data.
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"
import DetailedResponse from "@site/src/components/DetailedResponse"

# Accessing database driver


### Get Actual Database Name

The `getActualDbName` method returns the database name used by Agnost. If you
selected "Assign a unique name to this database in different versions of the
application" when creating a database in Agnost Studio, Agnost assigns a unique
database name. This method returns the actual database name used in your
application.

:::tip
Sometimes, the database methods provided by the Agnost server library might not be enough to implement your use case. In those cases, you need direct access to the database client (e.g., driver) and perform your database operations through the native client. In those instances, if you need to use the name of the database, especially if the database name is automatically generated by Agnost to minimize name conflicts, then this method will provide you the database name string.
:::

<Tabs defaultValue="javascript" groupId="dev" values={[ { label: "Javascript", value: "javascript" }]}>


<TabItem value="javascript">


```javascript
const dbName = agnost.db("myDb").getActualDbName();
console.log("Actual Database Name:", dbName);
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


### Get Client

The `getClient` method returns the database client that you can use to perform
advanced database operations. A client instance for the following NPM modules
will be returned based on the database type:

- MongoDB: `mongodb@6.2.0`
- PostgreSQL: `pg@8.11.3`
- MySQL: `mysql2@3.6.2`

:::info

Please note that if you update the database schema for a database managed by
Agnost using the native client, these changes will not be reflected in your Agnost
application. It is recommended to use Agnost Studio to perform database schema
changes.

:::

<Tabs defaultValue="javascript" groupId="dev" values={[ { label: "Javascript", value: "javascript" }]}>


<TabItem value="javascript">


```javascript
const dbClient = agnost.db("myDb").getClient();
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

