---
sidebar_position: 4
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

# Integrating Third-Party Services

Agnost supports integration with various third-party services, enabling
developers to incorporate different functionalities in their applications
without the need to build everything from scratch. This guide covers the
fundamental principles of integrating third-party services into your Agnost
applications.

### API Integrations

API integrations allow your application to interact with external services.
These integrations can range from basic data retrieval to complex transactions.

With Agnost, you can implement API integrations at the endpoint level. Agnost
provides built-in support for HTTP requests, enabling developers to make API
calls within their application logic effortlessly. You can use any popular HTTP
client library, such as axios or fetch, to make these requests.

### OAuth Integrations

OAuth integrations allow your application to authenticate users using external
services, such as Google, Facebook, or GitHub. This eliminates the need for
users to create a new account specifically for your application, improving the
user experience.

Agnost supports OAuth integrations through its built-in authentication and
authorization system. You can specify OAuth providers in your Agnost
configuration and utilize built-in authentication strategies to authenticate
users.

### SDK Integrations

Software Development Kits (SDKs) provided by third-party services can offer
additional functionalities to your application. They can range from cloud
storage solutions like AWS S3, to analytics tools like Google Analytics, or
payment solutions like Stripe.

Integrating SDKs into an Agnost application is typically a straightforward
process. Most services provide Node.js SDKs that you can easily incorporate into
your Agnost application. The Agnost configuration file can be used to manage SDK
settings and credentials securely.

### Data Integration

Agnost allows the integration of external data sources into your application.
This feature is useful when you need to integrate your application with an
external database or a data warehouse.

With the flexible architecture of Agnost, you can write custom code in your
application to connect to an external data source and interact with it as
needed. Agnost's support for multiple database types also simplifies the process
of connecting to different databases.

In conclusion, integrating third-party services into your Agnost applications is
a breeze. Agnost's flexibility and extendibility allow for seamless
integrations, enriching your application with diverse functionalities provided
by third-party services. Remember, third-party integrations can significantly
enhance the capabilities of your application, making it more useful and
appealing to end-users.
