---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# About Agnost

**Agnost is a comprehensive and powerful platform that simplifies backend
development tasks**, allowing you to focus on crafting exceptional software
without the complexities of managing infrastructure.With Agnost, you can
seamlessly **deploy and manage applications in the cloud**, regardless of your
preferred cloud provider, while specifically optimized to work within Kubernetes
clusters.

## Why Choose Agnost?

Agnost **simplifies the process of developing and deploying backend applications
in a cloud-native environment**. It provides a comprehensive ecosystem with
essential tools and technologies, offering everything you need to manage
_databases, storage, cache, message queues, authentication, cronjobs, and
real-time features_ â€“ all in one place.

Agnost offers a plethora of benefits that cater specifically to developers and
software architects:

**Streamline Your Development Process:** Agnost streamlines cloud application
deployment, allowing you to effortlessly manage applications in the cloud. By
automating infrastructure setup, Agnost enables you to concentrate on building
software instead of worrying about managing servers.

**Unlock Flexibility and Portability:** Say goodbye to vendor lock-in with
Agnost. It offers a consistent and portable platform that functions seamlessly
across different cloud environments, providing you with the flexibility to work
with your preferred cloud provider.

**Built for Serious Workloads:** Agnost takes replication to the next level,
offering the ability to scale and distribute critical data and messages across
multiple instances. With Agnost, you can handle even the most demanding
workloads with ease.

**Experience Realtime Communication:** With support for WebSockets and
Server-Sent Events, Agnost empowers you to implement real-time communication and
deliver live updates to your users, enhancing their experience.

**Secure Your Applications:** Protect your applications with Agnost's robust
authentication options, including Single-sign On, LDAP and Active Directory, and
Social Login. Additionally, Agnost offers security features such as API keys,
rate limiters, and domain/IP white-listing.

**Effortless Job Scheduling:** Agnost simplifies task automation with its
reliable cronjob support, allowing you to schedule jobs to run at specific times
or intervals.

---

In the next sections of the documentation, you will find detailed instructions
on installing and setting up Agnost, getting started with creating your first
backend application, and exploring the various features that Agnost has to
offer. From managing databases to implementing real-time capabilities, each
section will provide clear and concise information to support your journey with
Agnost.
