---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Platform Features

Agnost is a Kubernetes development platform that simplifies the process of
building and deploying applications. Agnost offers a wide range of features that
enable developers to build, deploy, and manage applications with ease. This
section explores the key features of Agnost and how they benefit developers.

## Database

Agnost offers a versatile database support system, accommodating various
database options such as MongoDB, MySQL, or PostgreSQL.
Developers can seamlessly integrate their existing database or choose preferred
database technology, enabling flexible and compatible data management solutions.

## Storage

Agnost integrates with prominent cloud storage providers, including
AWS S3, GCP Cloud Storage, Azure Blob Storage, and MinIO. Developers gain access
to efficient and scalable storage solutions, enabling optimized data access and
storage while ensuring data redundancy for reliability.

## Cache

Enhancing application performance is a priority, and Agnost delivers with its
native support for Redis. Redis, an in-memory data structure store, empowers
developers to cache frequently accessed data for swift retrieval, reducing
database loads and improving application responsiveness.

## Message Queues

Agnost supports standard message queuing systems like RabbitMQ and Kafka (coming soon),
facilitating reliable communication between microservices. Asynchronous
communication ensures seamless data exchange, benefiting applications built on
event-driven architectures.

## Real-Time

Experience real-time communication with Agnost's support for WebSockets and
Server-Sent Events. Developers can build dynamic applications that deliver live
updates to users, accommodating features like real-time notifications and
collaborative functionalities.

## Authentication

Security is paramount, and Agnost offers an array of authentication methods,
including Email, Phone Number based and Social Logins. These
authentication options ensure secure and seamless user authentication,
safeguarding user data and application resources.

## Cronjobs

Automating routine tasks is made simple with Agnost's support for scheduled
cronjobs. Developers can automate critical background tasks, such as data
backups and report generation, optimizing application performance and reducing
manual intervention.

## Security

Agnost prioritizes security, not only through essential features like API keys,
rate limiters, and domain/IP white-listing but also by providing robust session
management capabilities. These security measures work in tandem to protect
applications against potential threats, unauthorized access, and session-related
vulnerabilities, enhancing data integrity and safeguarding sensitive
information.

## Replication

Agnost simplifies scaling with advanced replication capabilities. Developers can
create read replicas for databases, cache, and message broker clusters,
enhancing performance and fault tolerance. The ability to scale read replicas
and manage primary instances allows Agnost to handle serious workloads with
ease.

## Portability

Developers can customize backend environments with ease using Agnost. From
setting up MySQL, PostgreSQL, MongoDB, and Redis databases to configuring
RabbitMQ message brokers, and even implementing cronjobs and real-time
features, Agnost consolidates all essential components into one unified
platform. This streamlined approach empowers developers to fine-tune their
environments and optimize their applications efficiently.

## Automatic Type Definition with Agnost Code Editor

Agnost Code Editor provides seamless automatic type definition, making it easier
for developers to work with strongly-typed data and maintain code consistency
throughout their projects. This feature enhances code quality and reduces the
likelihood of type-related errors.

## Full Control over your API Servers

Agnost empowers developers with full control over your API servers, allowing
them to efficiently manage and deploy their apps with ease. With Agnost, you can harness the benefits of serverless
architecture while maintaining flexibility and customization in your app backends.
