---
title: What You Can Build with Agnost?
slug: what-you-can-build-with-agnost
author: Deniz Colak
author_title: Co-Founder
author_url: https://github.com/zinedkaloc
author_image_url: https://github.com/zinedkaloc.png
description:
  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to build scalable, secure backend
  applications in minutes instead of days or weeks?
keywords:
  - general
  - open-source
  - kubernetes
image: /img/blog/2023-07-14/banner.png
tags: [general, open-source, use-cases]
---

import Banner from "@site/src/components/Banner"
import BrowserWindow from "@site/src/components/BrowserWindow"

<head>
  <title>What You Can Build with Agnost?</title>
  <meta property="og:title" content="What You Can Build with Agnost?" />
  <meta name="twitter:title" content="What You Can Build with Agnost?" />
</head>

Have you ever wondered what it would be like to build scalable, secure backend
applications in minutes instead of days or weeks? Picture a tool that houses all
your development needs in one place, from application server, database, and
authentication to cron-jobs, realtime, and more. It's not just a dream, it's
reality, it's Agnost.

Let's paint an image for a moment: You're a software developer, you’ve just been
given a new project to create a web application that will revolutionize the way
businesses operate. This application will need to handle thousands of users
concurrently, it will need a robust database, secure authentication and it has
to be ready in record time. How do you start? With the traditional approach,
you'd probably start pulling your hair out over the immense workload and the
tight timeline. But, what if there was a better way?

## Introducing Agnost

Welcome to the world of Agnost, an open-source Kubernetes development platform
that has been transforming the tech industry. It is a developer's paradise; a
playground where ideas come alive and transform into reality in mere minutes.

This comprehensive guide is designed to take you on a journey through the
wonderland of Agnost. Whether you're a seasoned developer or just starting, our
aim is to make you say, "I can't believe it's so simple and powerful!" by the
time you're done reading.

So why wait? Dive in and explore the world of possibilities with Agnost!

To whet your appetite, here's a snippet of what lies ahead:

1. We will first familiarize you with Agnost, exploring its potential, and
   diving deep into its core.
2. Then, we will unveil the incredible variety of applications that you can
   build using Agnost - from web apps to AI-powered apps, and beyond.
3. Lastly, we will leave you marveling at the endless possibilities offered by
   Agnost's custom node.js express routes and middlewares.

"Is it possible to get all these with a single tool?", you might be wondering.
Yes, indeed, it is. And by the end of this guide, you will not just believe it,
but you will be ready to harness it. So, are you ready to embark on this
exciting journey?

Let's get started!

## What is Agnost?

### A Brief Overview

Agnost, in its simplest form, is a powerhouse disguised as an open-source
Kubernetes development platform. A masterpiece that seamlessly integrates an
application server, database, authentication, queues, storage, cache, cron-jobs,
and realtime capabilities into one comprehensible package.

The magic of Agnost doesn't stop there. It also offers a low-code endpoint
designer that permits developers to create and deploy APIs like a breeze. But,
how does it achieve this wizardry? The answer is simple: Agnost enables you to
build and manage your own custom node.js express routes and middlewares. Think
of it as your magic wand, ready to wave and make development challenges
disappear.

### The Power and Potential of Agnost

To truly understand the magic of Agnost, we need to take a step back and
appreciate its architecture. In essence, Agnost is a symphony of powerful
technologies working in harmony, akin to an orchestra playing a melodious tune.
Each instrument, whether it's the application server, the database, or the
authentication system, contributes to the harmony that is Agnost.

Now, imagine being the conductor of this orchestra. With the wave of your baton
(or in this case, a few lines of code), you can command these technologies to
create scalable and secure backend apps in a matter of minutes. It's akin to
harnessing the power of an orchestra to create a beautiful symphony, only this
time, your symphony is a masterpiece of backend development.

Take a moment and ponder: What if you could direct your development process just
like a conductor leads a symphony? How might that change your approach to
building applications?

That's the power and potential of Agnost. But, how does it translate into
real-world applications? What tangible benefits does it bring to the table?
Let's dig deeper and find out.

## Digging Deeper Into Agnost

At the heart of Agnost, we find several core components, each playing a crucial
role in simplifying and streamlining the development process. Let's dissect
Agnost and explore these core components:

**Application Server:** Agnost provides a robust application server environment
where your applications can live and thrive. With it, you can manage and scale
your applications with the precision and efficiency of a Swiss watchmaker.

**Database:** Agnost offers an integrated database component, eliminating the
need for external dependencies. It allows for a seamless interaction between
your application and your data, thereby making data management a breeze.

**Authentication:** Security is a primary concern in today's digital landscape.
Agnost addresses this by providing a built-in authentication mechanism. This
allows you to secure your application without having to reinvent the wheel.

**Storage:** Agnost's integrated storage component allows you to store and
retrieve files with ease. Whether it's images, videos, or documents, Agnost help
you manage your files with minimal effort.

**Queues, Cache, and Cron-Jobs:** These auxiliary features in Agnost help
optimize your application's performance. Whether it's handling tasks
asynchronously with queues, speeding up response time with caching, or
scheduling tasks with cron-jobs, Agnost has got you covered.

**Realtime Capabilities:** In the age of instant gratification, realtime
capabilities are a must for any application. Agnost provides you with the tools
to build applications that can provide users with immediate feedback.

**Low-Code Endpoint Designer:** Agnost's low-code endpoint designer is the
cherry on top. It empowers developers to create and deploy APIs with minimal
coding, thereby accelerating the development process.

## Understanding the Architecture of Agnost

Agnost’s architectural brilliance lies in its seamless integration of multiple
technologies. Its modularity, scalability, and flexibility are akin to the
interconnected blocks of LEGO - each piece serves a purpose, and together, they
form a powerful ensemble capable of creating anything you can imagine.

Consider for a moment the beauty of a well-constructed LEGO structure. Isn't it
amazing how each piece comes together to form a bigger picture, each component
integral to the whole? That's precisely what Agnost accomplishes in the realm of
software development.

"But what does this mean for me as a developer?" you may ask. In essence, it
means that with Agnost, you have the power to build, manage, and scale your
applications with unprecedented ease. You have the ability to shape your
development process as you see fit, just like a master LEGO builder.

:::tip

For a more in-depth look at Agnost's architecture, check out our
[Architecture Overview](/blog/high-level-overview-of-agnost-architecture) blog
post.

:::

## The Applications You Can Build With Agnost

With Agnost at your fingertips, the kind of applications you can build are only
limited by your imagination. Let's explore some categories of applications that
you can create with Agnost:

### Web Applications

Web applications are the backbone of the internet, from simple blogs to complex
enterprise solutions. With Agnost, creating these applications is as simple as
pie. You can leverage its built-in components like the application server and
database to quickly set up and scale your web applications.

From complex web apps like online marketplaces or simpler projects like blogs
and portfolio websites, Agnost’s built-in components, such as the application
server and database, ensure you get your application up and running in no time.

Consider creating a blog site. Instead of juggling multiple technologies and
orchestrating them to work together, with Agnost, you can focus on the logic of
your application while the heavy lifting is taken care of.

### CRM Applications

Agnost is a one-stop solution to build Customer Relationship Management (CRM)
applications. CRMs require a solid backend that can handle high data loads and
facilitate real-time updates—a task perfectly suited to Agnost's powerful
database and real-time capabilities.

CRM systems can range from lead tracking systems to customer support ticketing
systems, all of which require instant updates and robust data management. With
Agnost, you can create a CRM that not only stores and manages customer data but
also provides real-time updates to your sales representatives or customer
support agents, enhancing business operations and decision-making.

### Social Networking Applications

Building social networking applications with Agnost is a breeze. The platform’s
authentication, database, and real-time capabilities combine to create a
seamless social networking experience.

Whether you’re building the next Facebook or a niche networking app for
hobbyists, Agnost is an excellent choice. Its integrated authentication system
ensures user information is stored and accessed securely, while the real-time
capabilities make sure users can instantly see updates from their connections.
Agnost’s robust database system also allows you to scale as your user base
grows, making it an ideal choice for both startup and enterprise-level
applications.

### Chat Applications

Developing chat applications can be a complicated task, considering the
real-time communication and dynamic interactions that need to be handled.
However, with Agnost's real-time capabilities, building dynamic, responsive chat
applications is simplified.

From a one-on-one messaging system to a full-fledged group chat feature, Agnost
can handle it all. Its database component enables you to store and manage chat
messages effectively, while its real-time capabilities ensure messages are
broadcast instantly to the recipients.

### Collaborative Tools

Building real-time collaborative tools, such as a document editing software or
project management tools, is straightforward with Agnost. The platform's
real-time and database capabilities ensure that changes made by one user are
instantly reflected for other users.

Agnost allows you to build tools where multiple users can make simultaneous
updates, with each user's view being refreshed in real time to reflect these
changes. This level of collaboration is essential in today's remote and global
working environment, and Agnost makes it easier to achieve.

### AI-Powered Applications

When it comes to AI-powered applications, Agnost shines with its powerful
database and queue capabilities. Handling large amounts of data and running
complex machine learning algorithms is made simple with Agnost.

Whether you're building a recommendation engine for an eCommerce store or an
AI-powered productivity tool, Agnost's robust data management system and
efficient task queueing can handle the job. It allows you to process
time-consuming AI tasks in the background, ensuring your application remains
responsive and efficient.

### E-commerce Applications

Creating e-commerce applications can be complex, requiring features like
shopping carts, payment processing, and inventory management. However, with
Agnost's robust database and powerful application server, you're well-equipped
to handle these challenges.

From managing product inventories to processing customer orders, Agnost
simplifies every aspect of building an e-commerce application. It provides a
unified platform where you can design, implement, and manage all your e-commerce
functionalities, helping you create a seamless shopping experience for your
customers.

### Internal Productivity Tools

Agnost enables you to create internal productivity tools that streamline your
team's operations.

From project management systems, workflow automation tools, to intranet
platforms—Agnost's scalable backend, database, and real-time capabilities make
it simple to build these solutions. You can create systems that log and track
tasks, help distribute workload, or automate repetitive tasks.

Moreover, Agnost's low-code endpoint designer ensures you can quickly iterate on
your tool's design based on the changing requirements of your team. This means
you can always keep your tool up-to-date, efficiently catering to your
organization's evolving needs.

### Batch Job Processors

Batch processing is a method of running high-volume, repetitive data jobs. It's
the backbone of every modern business that needs to manage massive amounts of
data. With Agnost's support for cron jobs, you can easily build robust batch job
processors.

Agnost allows you to schedule these jobs for off-peak hours to ensure optimal
system performance. You can automate system maintenance tasks, process large
data files, or even run complex data analytics at scale.

Whether you need a nightly job that backs up your database or a task that
periodically cleans up old logs, Agnost's capabilities make it straightforward
to create, schedule, and manage these processes.

### New Versions of Legacy Apps

In a world where technology evolves rapidly, maintaining legacy applications can
be a challenge. Upgrading these applications to use modern technologies is often
a better long-term strategy. With Agnost, you can transition these legacy
systems into modern, scalable applications with ease.

Agnost's support for modern server, database, and other back-end technologies
means you can redesign your legacy systems to match today's standards and
performance requirements. It also allows you to add new features that weren't
possible with your old architecture.

In addition, the modular nature of Agnost ensures that you can iterate on the
redesign, moving parts of your legacy system piece by piece. This way, you can
ensure a smooth transition with minimal disruption to your users.

In essence, regardless of the type of application or service you're building,
Agnost provides the flexibility, scalability, and robustness you need to bring
your vision to life.

## The Endless Possibilities

> with Custom Node.js Express Routes and Middlewares

Beyond these core capabilities, Agnost's flexibility is further enhanced by the
support for custom Node.js Express routes and middlewares. This capability
allows developers to tailor and extend Agnost to suit their unique needs.

### The Power of Custom Routes

Custom routes allow you to define your own endpoints and handle HTTP requests in
a way that fits your application's requirements. This is similar to how a city's
road network can be customized to best serve its inhabitants.

Take the example of creating a custom route to handle a unique requirement in
your application:

```javascript
// Using Agnost to create a custom route
const express = require("express")
const app = express()
const Agnost = require("agnost")

app.get("/custom", async (req, res) => {
  // Handle the GET request in a custom way
  const result = await customFunction(req.query)

  res.status(200).send(result)
})

agnost.listen(app)
```

Just like how a city planner has the flexibility to design a road network, as a
developer, you have the flexibility to design your application's endpoint
structure with custom routes.

### The Power of Custom Middlewares

In Express, a middleware is a function that has access to the request object,
the response object, and the next function in the application’s request-response
cycle. Middlewares can execute any code, transform the request and the response
objects, or end the request-response cycle. If the current middleware function
does not end the request-response cycle, it must call `next()` to pass control
to the next middleware function.

Agnost embraces this philosophy and allows developers to use custom middlewares,
enabling you to add custom logic to your application's request-response cycle.

Consider a custom middleware that logs the time of every request to your
application:

```javascript
// Using Agnost to create a custom middleware
const express = require("express")
const app = express()
const Agnost = require("agnost")

app.use((req, res, next) => {
  console.log(`Request received at ${new Date().toISOString()}`)
  next()
})

agnost.listen(app)
```

## Final Thoughts

This custom middleware logs the time of the request before passing control to
the next middleware in the chain. This is similar to how a security guard checks
everyone entering a building and then passes them on to their destination.

Having explored the vast landscape of possibilities that Agnost offers, let's
circle back to the essence of Agnost. It is an open-source Kubernetes
development platform, encompassing the building blocks required for software
development, wrapped in an intuitive and user-friendly interface.

Much like how a painter uses a palette of colors to create art, as a developer,
you use Agnost to craft applications. From the application server to the
database, from authentication to queues, storage, cache, and cron-jobs, from
realtime capabilities to the low-code endpoint designer, each component of
Agnost is a unique color on your palette. Mix and match, combine and contrast,
the artwork you create is entirely up to you.

Do you need to build a state-of-the-art web application? Agnost is at your
service. Or maybe a CRM application that can handle vast amounts of data? Agnost
has you covered. From social networking applications to chat applications, from
real-time collaboration tools to AI-powered apps, and e-commerce applications,
Agnost is the constant companion on your development journey.

"But what about my unique needs?" you might wonder. Agnost has that covered too.
With its support for custom Node.js Express routes and middlewares, Agnost
allows you to bend it to your will, to make it work the way you want it to.

So, what can you build with Agnost? The answer is - anything. With its powerful
components, flexible architecture, and supportive community, Agnost is not just
a development platform; it's a canvas for your imagination, a playground for
your ideas, and a launching pad for your ambitions.

And remember, every masterpiece begins with a single stroke. So, why not make
Agnost the first stroke in your next masterpiece?

### Try Agnost Today!

Are you ready to embark on your journey with Agnost? Begin your adventure today
and join the ranks of developers who have discovered the joy of creating with
Agnost. Let's build the future together, one line of code at a time!

Remember, as Leonardo da Vinci once said, "Simplicity is the ultimate
sophistication." With Agnost, we provide the simplicity, and you bring the
sophistication. Let's simplify development and sophisticate the world of
applications together. Ready, set, Agnost!

So, what are you waiting for? Grab a cup of your favorite brew, fire up your
code editor, and let's start building with Agnost!
