---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Frequently Asked Questions

Here are some of the most frequently asked questions about using Agnost:

### What is Agnost?

Agnost is a cloud-agnostic application deployment platform that simplifies the
process of deploying and managing applications on any Kubernetes cluster. It
provides a variety of features such as backend API implementation, database
integration, real-time functionality with Websockets, user authentication, and
more.

### What cloud providers does Agnost support?

Agnost is designed to be cloud-agnostic. You can deploy your applications to any
Kubernetes cluster, whether it's on Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure,
Google Cloud Platform (GCP), or your own on-premise Kubernetes cluster.

### How does Agnost handle scaling and load balancing?

Agnost leverages the built-in scaling and load balancing capabilities of
Kubernetes. Agnost allows you to easily scale your applications up or down based
on demand, and distributes traffic between instances for efficient load
balancing.

### How does Agnost ensure security and encryption?

Agnost implements a variety of security measures to protect your applications.
These include secure user authentication and authorization, encrypted data
storage and transmission, and secure connections between your application and
its backend services.

### How does Agnost integrate with CI/CD pipelines?

Agnost can be easily integrated into your existing CI/CD pipelines to automate
the process of building, testing, and deploying your applications. You can
configure Agnost to automatically deploy your application whenever changes are
pushed to your Git repository.

### How does Agnost handle updates and versioning?

With Agnost, you can easily manage updates and versioning for your applications.
Agnost supports both rolling updates and blue-green deployment strategies to
minimize downtime during updates.

### How do I backup and restore data with Agnost?

Agnost allows you to easily backup and restore your application data. You can
schedule automatic backups and restore data from a backup in case of data loss.

### I'm facing an issue that's not listed here. Where can I get help?

If you're facing an issue that's not covered here, you can seek help from the
Agnost community through our Github repository or community forum. You can also
contact our support team for assistance.
